By late in the evening, a sense of foreboding had settled over Barton. He wandered from one
room to another through his upscale condo, stopping to flip TV channels, sound muted, without
perceiving the images that flashed on screen. Several times he tried to telephone Maggie, the
woman he’d been dating for the past several months. Barton was frustrated that, on top of the
day’s events, he was stuck home alone on a Friday night because Maggie, a management
consultant, was on temporary assignment in another city. She was probably with clients, but it
was odd that she was not answering her mobile phone. Given his overall state of mind, Barton
was inclined to assume the worst.
He thought about going for a run, but he preferred mornings for that. Logging on to his
computer, he discovered that his nephew, a technology, music, and video game buff, had
“gifted” him some music. Jack often sent Barton things via e-mail, like videos or links to
interesting Web pages. Barton and his nephew had a special relationship, although they didn’t
see each other very often (Jack lived in the suburbs, which might as well have been in another
country as often as Barton made it out there).
Delighted with the distraction, he downloaded music by a band called Black Box Recorder.
Barton hoped for something that would lift his spirits, but he could see immediately from the
song titles that he was out of luck: “Girl Singing in the Wreckage” and “It’s Only the End of the
World” didn’t sound upbeat. Barton cued up the new tunes and tapped on the remote to
channel the music to his high-end sound system, cranking up the volume. About halfway
through the album, the lead singer offered some breathy advice that struck Barton as
useful: Life is unfair, the singer whispered, against a stark backdrop of percussion and
bass, Kill yourself or get over it. It made Barton laugh. Seizing the energy in this burst of levity,
he decided to get out of the condo for a while, take a walk, find something else to lift his spirits.
Grabbing a coat, he left without turning off the music.
Forty or so minutes later, hitched up to a bar, he found himself in a serious conversation with a
kid who, Barton assumed from his looks and the way he talked, did some kind of computer
work for a local business or university. The guy was in his late twenties, Barton guessed, just a
decade or so younger than Barton himself, but total kid and total nerd in the way he interacted.
In the time it took to drain a martini, Barton had unloaded his story, told his sad tale of career
misfortune. The kid had advice. He kept repeating a phrase that Barton couldn’t quite follow: