“I think it’s a question of whether the five of us working alone will be able to accomplish what
you have in mind,” said Bernie Ruben, director of the IT department’s Technical Services
Group. The others around the table controlled their movements and facial expressions, but
Barton could tell that they agreed. Ruben, at least twenty years Barton’s senior, near enough
to retirement to feel safe or simply old enough not to care, was the bravest of his direct reports.
Ruben’s voice contained no fear as he spoke, which differentiated him from the others in the
conference room: Raj Juvvani, director of Customer Support and Collection Systems, Tyra
Gordon, director of Loan Operations and New Application Development Systems, and Paul
Fenton, director of Infrastructure and Operations; all younger, with more to lose.*
The meeting had not gone according to Barton’s plan. First thing that morning he’d asked
Jenny, his assistant, to find an IT department organization chart. With that in his possession,
he’d ascertained who reported to him and summoned them via e-mail to a 10 a.m. meeting. He
chose to assemble only his operating managers, not including Gary Geisler, a more junior
manager with whom he planned to meet later in the week.
*See “IT Organization Chart” at the end of this chapter.
Once they had all assembled, exchanged greetings, and submitted brief status reports, Barton
had floated his idea of an off-site management meeting to set direction for the department.
Before the meeting, Barton would have been hard-pressed to imagine any reasonable
objections to his plan. He’d expected quick acceptance followed by a session of planning for
the event.
But he’d been wrong. No more than three or four minutes into his explanation of what he had
in mind, Fenton interjected a question: “You want just the five of us at this off-site?”
“That’s what I was thinking,” said Barton. Fenton and Gordon exchanged knowing looks.
Barton had not understood the question; he tried for clarification: “Why not just the five of us?”
Fenton shifted uncomfortably. He glanced in the direction of the others and saw that no help
would be forthcoming.
“It’s just that we’ll only be able to go so far in certain discussions without other people
involved,” said Fenton. “For example, if we want to talk about security, I’d want to involve John
Cho.”
“John Cho?” said Barton.
The others nodded, their movements synchronized. Ruben spoke up: “Cho. You know him.
Wild hair, purple streaks. Boots. Black tee shirts adorned with human skulls. Piercings.”
“That guy,” said Barton, nodding. “Been in meetings with him. Not sure I’ve been formally
introduced.”
“He’s what’s standing between this company,” said Ruben, “and the armies of hackers who’d
love to loot a financial services firm.”
“Are we sure Cho is on our side?” Barton intended this as a joke, but it fell flat.
Fenton, speaking up for his employee, said: “Oh, John is definitely a white hat.”
“A white hat?”
They all nodded, again in sync. Ruben smiled, said, “Although he wouldn’t be caught dead
actually wearing one.”
Everyone laughed, which shattered the tension in the room. It was the effect Barton had been
going for when he’d tried his joke. Ruben had realized it, done Barton a favor.