The relatively mindless Saturday pursuits had left him with plenty of capacity to think about his
first day as CIO on Monday. The obvious first thing to do would be a meeting of his direct
reports. He’d have sent out notice of the meeting on the weekend, but he realized that he
wasn’t even sure who the direct reports to the CIO were. Sending the notice on Monday
wouldn’t be too much of a problem; they would all be expecting it.
At the meeting, Barton intended to propose a day or two of off-site meetings sometime in the
next two or three weeks; he would ask his managers to present the current status of the
activities within their areas, the challenges that needed to be met in the coming months, and
opportunities to create value for the company. Using the current situation as a basis, he then
wanted them to work together to construct a future vision for the role of IT in the business.
Before too long, they’d need to hold an all-hands department meeting, the first for Barton as
their new leader; they could begin to plan that also.
That would be the morning. In the afternoon, he wanted to spend some time with the Planning
and Control guy. Gary Geisler was keeper of the financial information that pertained to IT
budgets and expenditures. Barton expected to field questions from the CEO’s office about how
much IVK spent on IT. Right now, he didn’t even know the right categories for analyzing IT
spending (but he knew he didn’t know, right?).
As Barton began to jog down a path, he suddenly had a disturbing thought. Sometimes, he
recalled, Bill Davies jogged around here. Barton had occasionally encountered him on this very
route. Davies surely knew by now who his chosen successor was, but Barton was unsure how
Davies might react to the news. There was more than a little irony in the fact that his most
vocal critic had been stuck with his job. Davies might relish that. But it couldn’t feel very good
to get fired; Barton had never experienced that, didn’t care to.
A few minutes later, two paths converged and—to Barton’s horror— he found himself running
almost side-by-side with Davies, who didn’t seem to notice at first. If Barton stopped suddenly,
he would just have drawn attention to himself. Worse than that, it might have conveyed to
Davies a message that Barton was intimidated or embarrassed, and he was deeply averse to
communicating either sentiment. Instead, he felt inclined to reach out to Davies. Not to
apologize exactly, although that might have been appropriate, especially for some of the
wisecracks he’d made about Davies’s “benevolent dictator” leadership style and rather quirky
wardrobe. But maybe to say “no hard feelings,” to convey some respect for the work the other
man had done. And maybe—just maybe, Barton realized—to create the option of consulting
Davies about things in the future. This was not something he would be inclined to do at first,
but there might come a time when it would be useful. Barton did not believe in burning bridges.
So when Davies slowed down and stopped to rest and stretch, Barton did also.